# Project _ Recommender System for Books

For illustration, this is my demo : https://bookwormrecomm.herokuapp.com/ 
To understand how the recommendations are selected, please read the descriptions below.

## Table of Contents

* [Group Project _ Recommender System](#group-project-_-recommender-system)
   * [Overview](#overview)
   * [Recommendations based on user id (Collaborative Filtering)](#recommendations-based-on-user-id-collaborative-filtering)
   * [Recommendations based on book genre](#recommendations-based-on-book-genre)
   * [Cold Start User](#cold-start-user)
   * [Multiple inputs](#multiple-inputs)
   * [Future Works](#future-works)
   * [Credits](#credits)

## Overview
The recommendation results are subject to the three following inputs. Users can key in any one or all of them.
1. User id
2. Book Genre
3. Book Title

The results are generated by different models, depending on what inputs users provide. The default number of recommended books is 100 and reduces when more inputs are available

## Recommendations based on user id 
I use collaborative deep learning (CDL), which joinly perform deep representation learning for content information (book description) and collaborative filtering for the ratings matrix (user-book-rating). 

By using rating matrix, the model learns similar users based on users' preferences to books. In addition, the model uses auxiliary information - books' descriptions - to learn books' vectors. This combination of the two components from two different sources improves the model performance significantly. 

## Recommending books based book title
With an assumption that users will like the books that are similar to the books that they liked, when a book title are input, the recommender system will find similar books to make recommendation.
To determine book similarity, the books's latent factors generated by CDL model are used with cosine similarity.

## Recommendations based on book genre
When a genre is selected, the system recommends the most popular books in the selected genre. The most popular books are computed by IMDB Movie Rating Formula, using the books' ratings and rating counts. 

To add novelty, I randomly replace 2% of the results by the new books (most recently published) irrespective of genre and another 2% with books of the same genre (regardless of the popularity).

## Cold Start User
When no information is available, the cold start scenario, 100 most popular books are displayed. When the user key in his or her userid or a book or a genre, the results will change depending on the inputs. 

## Multiple inputs
When more than one information is fed into the system, the algorithms will display the books that match all inputs at the top section "Top Recommendations". The remaining books, generated based on each sigle input, are displayed in separate sections.

## Future Works
For a more real-time recommendation, the model should be retrained periodcially with new data.  
For a more personalized recommendation, additional features should be collected such as book tags, thumbs up, thumbs down button.

## Credits
Base frontend framework and design are inspired by https://github.com/Tharun-tharun/Movie-Recommendation-System-with-Sentiment-Analysis

Collaborative Deep Learning (CDL) for Recommender System: https://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2944
